docs: edits and updates for Tutorial 1: Hello World (#337)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/zkapps/tutorials/01-hello-world.mdx

# Tutorial 1: Hello World

This Hello World tutorial helps you get started with SnarkyJS, zkApps, and programming with zero-knowledge proofs. 

In this step-by-step tutorial, you learn to code a zkApp from start to finish.

You will: 

- Write a basic smart contract that stores a number as on-chain state.

> - The contract logic allows this number to be replaced only by its square; for example, 3 -> 9 -> 18, and so on. 

Author: ```suggestion
- The contract logic allows this number to be replaced only by its square; for example, 3 -> 9 -> 81, and so on. 
```

To verify your installed versions, use `npm -v`, `node -v`, and `git -v`.

### Install the zkApp CLI

To install the zkApp CLI:

```sh
$ npm install -g zkapp-cli
```

To confirm successful installion:

```sh
$ zk --version
```

This tutorial has been tested with Mina zkApp CLI version `0.7.5` and SnarkyJS `0.9.8`.

## Create a new project

Now that you have the tooling installed, you can start building your application.

1. Create or change to a directory where you have write privileges.
1. Now, create a project using the `zk project` command:

  ```sh
  $ zk project 01-hello-world
  ```

  The `zk project` command has the ability to scaffold the UI for your project. For this tutorial, select `none`:

  ```
  ? Create an accompanying UI project too? …
    next
    svelte
    nuxt
    empty
  ❯ none
  ```
  The expected output is:

  ```sh
  ✔ Create an accompanying UI project too? · none
  ✔ UI: Set up project
  ✔ Initialize Git repo
  ✔ Set up project
  ✔ NPM install
  ✔ NPM build contract
  ✔ Set project name
  ✔ Git init commit

  Success!

  Next steps:
    cd 01-hello-world
    git remote add origin <your-repo-url>
    git push -u origin main
  ```

>   This command creates the `01-hello-world` directory that contains the scaffolding for your project, including tools such as the Prettier code formatting tool, the ESLint static code analysis tool, and the Jest JavaScript testing framework. 

Author: ```suggestion
  The `zk project` command creates the `01-hello-world` directory that contains the scaffolding for your project, including tools such as the Prettier code formatting tool, the ESLint static code analysis tool, and the Jest JavaScript testing framework. 
```

1. Change into the `01-hello-world` directory and list the contents:

  ```sh
  $ cd 01-hello-world
  $ ls
  ```

  The output shows these results:

  ```sh
  LICENSE
  README.md
  babel.config.cjs
  build
  config.json
  jest-resolver.cjs
  jest.config.js
  keys
  node_modules
  package-lock.json
  package.json
  src
  tsconfig.json
  ```

> For this tutorial, you run commands from the `01-hello-world` directory as you work in the `src` directory on files that contain the TypeScript code for the smart contract. Each time you make updates, then build or deploy, the TypeScript code is compiled into JavaScript in the `build` directory.

Author: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, you run commands from the root of the `01-hello-world` directory as you work in the `src` directory on files that contain the TypeScript code for the smart contract. Each time you make updates, then build or deploy, the TypeScript code is compiled into JavaScript in the `build` directory.
```

  $ rm src/Add.test.ts
  $ rm src/interact.ts
  ```

1. Now, create the new files for your project:

  ```sh
  $ zk file src/Square
  $ touch src/main.ts
  ```

  - The `zk file` command created the `src/Square.ts` and `src/Square.test.ts` test files.
  - However, this tutorial does not include writing tests, so you just use the `main.ts` file as a script to interact with the smart contract and observe how it works. 

In later tutorials, you learn how to interact with a smart contract from the browser, like a typical end user. 

3. Now, open `src/index.ts` in a text editor and change it to look like:

  ```ts src/index.ts
  1 import { Square } from './Square.js';
  2
  3 export { Square };
  ```

  The `src/index.ts` file contains all of the exports you want to make available for consumption from outside your smart contract project, such as from a UI.

## Write the zkApp Smart Contract

Now, the fun part! Write your smart contract in the `src/Square.ts` file. 

Line numbers are provided for convenience. A final version of the smart contract is provided in the [Square.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Square.ts) example file.

> This tutorial walks through the `Square` smart contract code in the `src/Square.ts` as viewed in a text editor. Because this is your first project, this tutorial uses the provided example file to ensure you enjoy the best user experience.  

Author: ```suggestion
This part of the tutorial walks you through the `Square` smart contract code already completed in the `src/Square.ts` example file.   
```

> This tutorial walks through the `Square` smart contract code in the `src/Square.ts` as viewed in a text editor. Because this is your first project, this tutorial uses the provided example file to ensure you enjoy the best user experience.  

Author: ```suggestion
This tutorial walks through the `Square` smart contract code already completed in the `src/Square.ts` example file.  
```

> ## Copy the example 

Author: ```suggestion
### Copy the example 
```

> This tutorial walks you through the [Square.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Square.ts) example file. 

Author: ```suggestion
This tutorial describes each part of the completed code in the [Square.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Square.ts) example file. 
```

1. First, open the [Square.ts](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Square.ts) example file.

1. Copy the entire contents of the file into your smart contract in the `src/Square.ts` file.

Now you are ready to review the imports in the smart contract.  

### Imports

The `import` statement brings in other packages and dependencies to use in your smart contract. 

:::info

> All functions used inside a smart contract must operate on SnarkyJS compatible data types: `Field` types and other types built on top of `Field` types. 

Author: @jasongitmail  can you help me learn what a Field element is? can we call it Field elements? always cap Field? or is it a Field type? or?

### Preparing the project

Start by deleting the default files that come with the new project.

To delete the old files:

```sh
$ rm src/Add.ts
$ rm src/Add.test.ts
$ rm src/interact.ts
```

Then, generate the new files for the project:

```sh
$ zk file src/Square
$ touch src/main.ts
```

The `zk file` command created the `src/Square.ts` and `src/Square.test.ts` test files. However, this tutorial does not include writing tests. Instead, you use `main.ts` as a script to interact with the smart contract and observe how it works. 

In later tutorials, you learn how to interact with a smart contract from the browser, like a typical end user. For now, you just use the `main.ts` script.

Now, open `src/index.ts` in a text editor and change it to look like:

```ts src/index.ts
1 import { Square } from './Square.js';
2
3 export { Square };
```

The `src/index.ts` file contains all of the exports you want to make available for consumption from outside our smart contract project, such as from a UI.

### Building and running

:::info

> The following commands are included for reference and will fail if you run them now. This is expected behavior because you haven't written the `Square` smart contract yet.

Author: I'm not clear why we include these commands for reference when we know they will fail... talk me through a scenario where adding the commands here is useful

Maybe we need more visibility that these are commands we know will succeed after the tuto is complete?

```
$ npm run build
$ node build/src/main.js
```

The first command creates JavaScript code in the build directory. The second command runs the code in `src/main.ts`.

You can also combine these together into one line, such as:

```
npm run build && node build/src/main.js
```

This command runs `main` if the build is successful.

## Write the zkApp Smart Contract

Now, the fun part! Write your smart contract, the `src/Square.ts` file. 

Line numbers are provided for convenience. A final version of what you're writing is provided in the [Square.tx](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Square.ts) example file.

:::tip

This tutorial walks through the `Square` smart contract code in the `src/Square.ts` as viewed in a text editor. If this is your first project, use the provided example file for the best user experience.  

:::

## Copy the example 

The easiest way to walk through the example is to use the entire contents in the provided [Square.tx](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/main/examples/zkapps/01-hello-world/src/Square.ts) example file. You can then follow the tutorial with the finished code in place.

> Or you can follow the steps to copy and paste the code snippets into your project as you go. To avoid inserting the line numbers into your smart contract, use the copy code to clipboard button that appears at the top right of the snippet box when you hover over it.

Author: hmmmm 
I am not clear on the value of giving two options to complete our first tuto...

how many users want to copy code in bits? or should we instead provide only one option to use the provided example contents?

7 } from 'snarkyjs';
```

> These fields are:

Author: are these Field types? 

I'm curious about how we write: Field vs field

- Field types is accurate
- Fields is inaccurate (since a literal is not Fields plural)
- fields seems right, but not literal

> These fields are:

Author: teach me, are these Field types for on-chain state only?

23 }
```

The function name `update` is arbitrary, but it makes sense for this example. Notice how the `@method` decorator is used because it is intended to be invoked by end users by using a zkApp UI, or as in this case, the `main.ts` script.

> This method contains the logic by which end users are allowed to update the zkApp's account state on chain. In this example, the code specifies:

Author: ```suggestion
This method contains the logic by which end users are allowed to update the zkApp's account state on chain. A zkApp account is an account is on the Mina blockchain were a zkApp smart contract is deployed. A zkApp account has a verification key associated with it. In this example, the code specifies:
```

> This method contains the logic by which end users are allowed to update the zkApp's account state on chain. In this example, the code specifies:

Author: ```suggestion
This method contains the logic by which end users are allowed to update the zkApp's account state on chain. 

A zkApp account is an account is on the Mina blockchain were a zkApp smart contract is deployed. A zkApp account has a verification key associated with it. 

In this example, the code specifies:
```

- If the user provides a number (for example, 9) to the `update()` method that is the square of the existing on-chain state referred to as `num` (for example, 3), then update the `num` value that is stored on-chain to the provided value (in this case, 9). 
- If the user provides a number that does not meet these conditions, they are unable to generate a proof or update the on-chain state.

> These update conditions are accomplished by using "assertions" within the method. When a user invokes a method on a smart contract, all assertions must be true to generate the zero knowledge proof from that smart contract. The Mina network accepts the transaction and updates the on-chain state only if the attached proof is valid. This assertion is how you can achieve predictable behavior in an off-chain execution model.

Author: ```suggestion
These update conditions are accomplished by using assertions within the method. When a user invokes a method on a smart contract, all assertions must be true to generate the zero-knowledge proof from that smart contract. The Mina network accepts the transaction and updates the on-chain state only if the attached proof is valid. This assertion is how you can achieve predictable behavior in an off-chain execution model.
```

23 }
```

The function name `update` is arbitrary, but it makes sense for this example. Notice how the `@method` decorator is used because it is intended to be invoked by end users by using a zkApp UI, or as in this case, the `main.ts` script.

> This method contains the logic by which end users are allowed to update the zkApp's account state on chain. In this example, the code specifies:

Author: oh, this is our first mention of

> zkApp's account state on chain

what is a zkApp account? and let's describe it here

Reviewer: A zkApp account is an account is on the Mina blockchain were a zkApp smart contract is deployed. A zkapp account has a verification key associated with it. https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/blob/16e813c318ff05e2101d3ff5a581d39bf6724aab/docs/zkapps/how-zkapps-work.mdx?plain=1#L90-L91

- If the user provides a number (for example, 9) to the `update()` method that is the square of the existing on-chain state referred to as `num` (for example, 3), then update the `num` value that is stored on-chain to the provided value (in this case, 9). 
- If the user provides a number that does not meet these conditions, they are unable to generate a proof or update the on-chain state.

> These update conditions are accomplished by using "assertions" within the method. When a user invokes a method on a smart contract, all assertions must be true to generate the zero knowledge proof from that smart contract. The Mina network accepts the transaction and updates the on-chain state only if the attached proof is valid. This assertion is how you can achieve predictable behavior in an off-chain execution model.

Author: ```suggestion
These update conditions are accomplished by using assertions within the method. When a user invokes a method on a smart contract, all assertions must be true to generate the zero knowledge proof from that smart contract. The Mina network accepts the transaction and updates the on-chain state only if the attached proof is valid. This assertion is how you can achieve predictable behavior in an off-chain execution model.
```

Author: @jasongitmail are the double quotation marks a required convention? I suggest we move away from using them and instead define a convention, or just explain

24 await shutdown();
```

This local blockchain also provides pre-funded accounts. These lines create local test accounts with test MINA to use for this tutorial:

> ```ts

Author: ```suggestion
```sh
```

> ```sh

Author: after https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/issues/374 is merged, we can use `ignore`
